In the last video, we created Spring Data
Repositories that will provide some
implementation to work with Spring Data
for the various entities. Now in
this video, we are going to start
creating services that are going to
leverage those repositories, so I am
going to start on number 40 here. I'm
just going to sign that to myself to say that
it is in process. I am working on it.
This is going to be creating a service
layer using those repositories, so let's
come over here to IntelliJ and talk
about what I mean. We have this map
service. This is an implementation
that provides the service and using a
HashMap. Now I want to provide an
implementation of it using Spring Data
JPA so we're going to wire in things and
make an implementation of this that will
use Spring Data JPA, how we need to have
it provided. In doing so, we are going
to be leveraging that. We're doing this
out of service layer and our goal is to
as much as possible to abstract out the
implementation of the underlying
persistent store. So in this case, we are
comparing using a HashMap
implementation to persist data to vs.
using an SQL database. Through the
SQL database, we're going to be using JPA
Hibernate for implementation for ORM,
our Object Relational Mapping, and then
above that, we are going to be using
Spring Data JPA.
So a number of things that we're going to be
doing and our goal is to try to abstract
things out as much as possible. We
will be using Spring. The longer term
goal here is we're going to be using Spring
to control which one of these gets off
wired up at runtime, so the goal here is
we'll have a profile that we can run a
HashMap service with our little web
application for our pet clinic or
another profile where we can use a SQL
database so we'll be able to switch
those on and off with a switch. But, to
get there, what we need to do is start
implementing the service so I'm going to
create a new package here.
Let's call it springdatajpa, so a brand new
package here.
I'm going to work on the Owner. It's
coming up here. Say new Java class.
I'm abbreviating SD for Spring Data, so
Spring Data JPA gets rather lengthy so
we're going to go ahead and do that.
Let's come up here and I'm going to split
this vertically. On the top there, I
have our map implementation on the
bottom. What we're going to do is we are
going to code up our service. We want
to implement the OwnerService as well.
So let's come in here. I'm just going to
copy that.
Remember, that what we are doing is
we're providing an alternate
implementation of that interface, so
OwnerService is an interface, and now, we
are providing a different implementation
of that interface. We want to have
this be wired up as a Spring Component,
like so.
Now I'm going to come in here hit
option enter and implement the methods,
so these are the the various things that
we can implement.
Let's see here.I'm  just reviewing this. The
pets and pet type service, I don't think
we may need a PetTypeService but I
don't think we are going to need those
right now. We are definitely going to
need OwnerService, so private final.
Actually, let's go ahead
and we'll add in final.
I'm not 100% sure we're going to need these
but I'm going to wire them in right now, if
we need to, we can remove them later.
Notice I am implementing the
repositories here and you can see that
it's not happy. I'm going to go ahead and
say go ahead and add in constructor
parameters, highlight all these and
say okay. You can see that IntelliJ just
created that for me. Just as a coding
tip inside of IntelliJ, see this line
here? This is a right at about 80
characters, if I remember right. Just
as a rule of thumb, that's a good place
to cut off so it you don't want have
real long lines, that makes your code
hard to read so I'm just going to hit an
enter there and try to keep things from
bleeding over that line.
Now, we want to do a findByLastName().
What we want to do here is add in a
method into that repository so we're
going to be doing that. It's going to
the OwnerRepository.
It's going to return back an Owner
findByLastName()
so we can see this is going to be using
those dynamic query methods with a
Spring Data JPA. It's going to set up
a method for us to findByLastName() and
implement the underlying JPA
functionality to provide that. You
were leveraging Spring Data JPA
there. What we can do here is return
back ownerRepository findByLastName() and
pass in the lastName. So that's how easy
that is to return. Next, we want to
implement to find all method. It's going
to be pretty simple. What we want to do is
create a new Set Owner. I'll just call
that owners equals new HashSet
and now we can do ownerRepository findAll forEach.
What we can do is owners
so we're using a method reference there
then we can return back the owners
object.
Pretty simple implementation there
that would give us a findAll Set
up. There's probably a couple different ways
you could do that. You could arguably say
if we came out and did got a count
initialize the HashSet, that'd be
a minor performance. Actually, I'm not sure
that even help out your performance or
not, because you're going to have to go out
and get a count and then initialize that,
so not having that initialize the proper
size is probably less of a performance
Set than trying to go out and get a count
of the iterable. So it could argue about
that one. Then we want to findById(),  so
say ownerRepository
findbyId() and that becomes a Long.
That is returning back a optional so you're
going to do it get there. Now we are
returning an optional and we are doing a
get here on that. Now you can see that
that in IntelliJ give me some
warnings there about using get without
isPresent. You can see that that is
not too happy there. Can't remember if
that throws an exception if it's not
present. Let's see here.
Yeah it's going to throw an exception there,
and actually the functionality that I
want is to return back a null value, so
let's go ahead and modify this. So
you'll say... Let's see here.
That's going to be Optional of
Owner.
We'll get rid of that get(). Just clean
this up a little bit, and now we will say
optional Owner ifPresent().
I should say isPresent().
We're going to say if that is present,
what we want to do
is type
this right.
We'll say return optionalOwner.get()
else we're going to return null.
There's a couple different ways that
we can do this. We're not really in a
functional style right now for streaming
over it or something I'd probably write
this a little bit differently. But for
the functionality that we want right now,
let's see what IntelliJ tells me
here.
Ah okay, that's
a little bit cleaner. Exactly
what I want it so we're going to return the
optional or we're going to return null, so
like exactly what we want to. Thank you
for IntelliJ for helping me out with the
optional. There's a lot of
different ways we can use optionals and
I don't work with them all that often so
you can see a little of rust news there.
We can actually clean this up. We can
even get rid of that so I'm going to
copy that out. Boom! Get rid of you, so now
we have a much cleaner implementation of
it.
That's going to return back an owner if
found. If not, I'll return that. So now,
let's get on to this. So now we're going to
say ownerRepository.save().
It's very simple. Remember the save is
going to return back an owner object
just as we want so that is going to help
us out there. Let's see here. Owner
delete object so that's all we have to
implement on that.
deleteById(). Hit Long. So that's the
name. When I told IntelliJ, I came up with
aLong for the property name. I'm just going to
go ahead and roll with that for now.
Clean this up a little bit, so
that's our implementation. You can see that
I'm not using PetRepository or PetTypeRepository. I want to see how this
behaves right now because we have the
save. If we have unsaved pets or unsaved
pet types, I'm not quite sure how this
will behave. I'm being honest there. We
may want to experiment with this future.
I'm going to leave those in for right now.
Now, let's go ahead and start the
application. I'm expecting we are
going to get a collision because we have
two services defined for the
OwnerService. We see here we have the
ownerServiceMap and ownerServiceJpaService
What I'm going to do right
now is I'm going say @Profile.
This is going to be for Spring Data JPA in this
profile. So now, when I start this up,
you should see the start up normally.
We can see that it did startup.
Effectively, by what I did here is
setting in this profile, Spring Data JPA.
I've not called that an active profile
so this mean this been in the
context, is getting ignored. Spring is
saying I have set a profile called Spring
Data JPA. It doesn't march for Spring
Data JPA, so I'm going to skip over it
because that profile is not active and
because I set it to deactive profile,
only one implementation, only the map
implementation, got picked up by the
context, which is exactly what we want
for right now because I do want to be
working towards implementing
Spring Data JPA but we have other Spring
Data JPA classes to implement yet. So,
this is kind of exactly where we
want to be. Let's come over here and
this was a create Spring Data JPA Service
for owners, which we have completed so
I'm going to go ahead and commit this
into GitHub.
Now, this closes number 40.
Important that you get the pound
sign in front of 40.
I'm going to go ahead and commit that and that
will get pushed up to GitHub and
complete this task.